[Music]
I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
Friars with Renewal and this is the
rosary in Year podcast where through
prayer and meditation the rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of grace
for the whole world. The rosary in a
year is brought to you by Ascension.
This is day 145. To download the prayer
plan for rosary in a year, visit
ascensionpress.com/rosary in a year or
text riy to 33777.
You'll get an outline of how we're going
to pray each month. It's a great way to
track your progress. The best place to
listen to the podcast in the Ascension
app. There are special features built
just for this podcast and also
recordings of the full rosary with
myself and other friars. No matter what
app you're listening in, remember to tap
follow or subscribe for your daily
notifications. Today we will be
meditating upon and praying with the
second glorious mystery, the Ascension
of our Lord with help from an ascension
mosaic.
at St. Mark's Basilica in
Venice. Now, a brief
introduction to our artwork and our
artist, which is actually unknown. So,
we'll take a little moment to give a
little bit more background into mosaics,
specifically the mosaics in St. Mark's
Basilica in Venice. Well, the mosaics in
St. Marks Basilica that were created by
various artists over a period of about 8
centuries. While many of the artists
remain unknown, we can identify several
key like contributors. So in the early
mosaics from the 11th 12th centuries,
these were likely executed by Byzantine
artists and mosaicists who had just left
Constantinople. The 12th century mosaics
are from highly skilled mosaicists,
probably Greek trained, and they created
figures in the dome of
Emanuel. The 15th century mosaics were
done by Florentine artists, including
Paulo Uello and Andrea del
Castano, who worked on repairs and new
mosaics. And in the 15th and 16th
century, mosaics were done by Venetian
mosaicists.
In the 16th century onwards where
renowned Renaissance and manners artists
such as Tishon
Tento, Paulo
Veronosi, Jeppi Zaviati, and Palma
Giovani who prepared designs for the new
mosaics. So the mosaic we're be looking
at today could be from anywhere between
the 11th and the 19th century.
And now brief visual description of the
mosaic we'll be praying with
today. In the shimmering mosaic, Christ
is seated regally on a throne of
clouds. He raises his right hand as he
peers towards the viewer, bearing a
wooden cross against his shoulder. His
body is half exposed and half draped in
fine blue cloak. Two large angels hover
beneath him at his sides. The clouds
above are gold and filled with angelic
beings depicted with just heads and
wings. A three tipped halo of light
shines behind his golden
curls. Two people kneel in the clouds,
their faces fixed on Christ, clasping
their breasts in awe and
reverence. The woman at his right, our
lady, has a shining golden
halo. The man at his left, St. John the
Baptist leans on a pole with a
cross. So I'd like to share three
scripture
passages corresponding to the three key
figures in today's mosaic of the
ascension of our
Lord. First scripture referring to our
Lord from St. Paul's letter to the
Philippians chapter 2.
Jesus, who though he was in the form of
God, did not count equality with God a
thing to be grasped, but he emptied
himself, taking the form of a servant,
being born in the likeness of men. And
being found in human form, he humbled
himself and became obedient unto death,
even death on a cross. Therefore, God
has highly exalted him and bestowed on
him the name which is above every name
that at the name of Jesus every knee
should bow in heaven and on earth and
under the earth and every tongue confess
that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory
of God the
father. And then we see this movement in
St. John the Baptist and his own prayer
or his own
statement. All right. He must
increase and I must
decrease. This movement towards
humility but directed towards his
glory. From our lady's
magnificant he has regarded the low
estate of his handmmaiden. For behold
henceforth all generations will call me
blessed. She goes on to say, "He has put
down the mighty from their thrones and
exalted those of low degree." Like Mary
and John the
Baptist. They freely embraced their
loneliness and intentionally sought it.
Like they embraced it. They sought it.
And they did so
why? That the glory of God might
increase in them.
Jesus freely emptied
himself and became the lowest of the low
unto death on a
cross. But he has risen. He has risen
from the dead and he has ascended to the
right hand of the father where he reigns
as king of the
universe. Right? St. Paul in his letter
to the Ephesians, he writes, "Therefore,
it is said, when he ascended on high, he
led a host of captives, and he gave
gifts to men." In saying he ascended,
what does it mean but that he had also
descended into the lower parts of the
earth? He who descended is he who also
ascended far above all the heavens that
he might fill all things. I guess like
what I'm getting at is this like the
pattern of Jesus of life is to be the
pattern of our own
life to descend with him that we may
ascend with him to
embrace
humility and
obedience and confidence and trust that
one
day we may share in his glory. Right?
This is the way lived by St. John the
Baptist. This is the way lived by our
lady, queen of heaven and earth. And
what does it mean for us to decrease
that he might increase or to descend
with him that we might ascend with him?
Like well, let's start by surrendering
control like entering into the humility
of
surrender, echoing in our own lives
Mary's words, let it be done unto me
according to your word. trusting God,
trusting the father, even when it
doesn't make sense and when it doesn't
necessarily align with our immediate
desires, like what we think it should
look like. Not trying to grasp and
conquer our own happiness or pleasure
through sinful means.
surrendering our timeline and allowing
God time to work as he wants in our own
lives and the lives of
others. Trusting that he has a
plan to decrease that he may increase to
descend with him that we may ascend with
him. It means not
seeking worldly honors or riches for
their own
sake, but heavenly ones through prayer
and sacrifice and works of charity like
being obedient to the truth and
proclaiming the truth even when it may
not be comfortable or easy or in style
as we saw St. John the Baptist
do. In short, right, to live like Jesus,
to live like St. John the Baptist, to
live like our
lady, it is to do God's
will above all else faithfully,
sacrificially, but always trusting in
the father and his perfect love and his
perfect
plan. The road to heavenly
glory is
humility. the same road traveled by our
Lord and St. John the Baptist and our
lady. So as we conclude right and as we
set our minds and hearts again on
heaven, let us pray for the grace to let
go of what we need to let go
of set our minds and hearts on eternal
things on heavenly things and not on
passing things not on worldly
things. to give up vanity, envy,
jealousy about these worldly
things. My brothers and sisters, like
where he is, we are called to
be. Let us live for the things of
heaven. Let us embrace the royal road of
humility. Let us
decrease that he might
increase. And now with Mary, let us
pray. In the name of the Father and of
the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen. Our Father, who art in heaven.
Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven. Give us this day our daily
bread. And forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against
us, and lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil. Amen. Hail Mary,
full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou among women, and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us
sinners, now and at the hour of our
death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us
sinners now and at the hour of our
death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is
with thee, blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death. Amen. Hail
Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with
thee. Blessed art thou among women, and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God, pray for us
sinners, now and at the hour of our
death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death. Amen. Glory be to the
Father and to the Son and to the Holy
Spirit. As it was in the beginning, is
now and ever shall be, world without
end. Amen. In the name of the Father and
of the Son and of the Holy
Spirit. Amen. All right. Thanks so much
for joining me and praying with me again
today. I look forward to continuing this
journey with you again tomorrow. Poco
Poco friends. God bless y'all.